Title: 
  A Dual-Path Fusion Network for Pan-Sharpening 
  一个双路径融合全色锐化网络
  
Abstract：
  Most existing deep learning-based pan-sharpening methods own several widely recognized issues, such as spectral distortion and insufficient spatial texture enhancement. 
  指出当前全色锐化领域的不足：光谱失真、空间纹理增强不足等
  To address these challenges in pan-sharpening, we propose a novel dual-path fusion network (DPFN). 
  引出自己的DPFN模型
  The proposed DPFN includes two major components: 1) the global subnetwork (GSN) and 2) the local subnetwork (LSN).
  介绍模型的总体构成：全局子网络GSN和局部子网络LSN
  In particular, GSN aims to search similar image blocks in panchromatic (PAN) space and multispectral (MS) space and exploits HR textural information from the PAN space and spectral information from the MS space for the fine representation of pan-sharpened MS features by employing a cross nonlocal block.
  介绍GSN的功能是查找PAN图像和MS图像和相似块，并引出cross nonlocal block
  Meanwhile, the proposed LSN based on a high-pass modification block (HMB) is designed to learn the high-pass information, aiming to enhance bandwise spatial information from MS images. 
  介绍LSN的功能是学习高通信息，引出HMB块
  HMB forces the fused image to obtain high-frequency details from PAN images.
  介绍HMB块的功能
  Moreover, to facilitate the generation of visually appealing pan-sharpened images, we propose a perceptual loss function and further optimize the model based on high-level features in the near-infrared space.
  介绍感知损失函数，目的是生成更具视觉吸引力的图像
  Experiments demonstrate the superior performance of the proposed method quantitatively and qualitatively compared to existing state-of-the-art pan-sharpening methods.
  实验效果介绍
  The source code is available at https://github.com/jiaming-wang/DPFN.
  GitHub地址
  
Introduction：
  WITH the rapid development of satellite sensors, remote sensing images have been widely used in various academic fields, and civil and military domains.
  从卫星空间图像引入
  However, as recognized by many, remote sensing sensors own the intrinsic tradeoff between spatial resolution and spectral resolution.
  提出卫星空间图像的空间分辨率和光谱分辨率两个重要要素
  As a result, for a certain remote sensing sensor, the captured gray panchromatic (PAN) images are generally with a finer resolution than multispectral (MS) images.
  引出PAN图像和MS图像的特点
  Typically, the goal of pan-sharpening is to integrate the texture details of the high-resolution (HR) PAN images with the spectral information from low-resolution (LR) MS images for the purpose of generating HR-MS images, therefore breaking the technological limits.
  介绍Pansharpening的任务：将PAN图像的纹理细节和MS图像的光谱信息聚合以生成HRMS图像，打破技术限制
  Given the above utility, pan-sharpening tasks are often regarded as a crucial preprocessing step for numerous remote sensing data applications, such as the extraction of urban impervious surfaces, land-cover classification, and change detection.
  说明Pansharpening任务的重要性
  
  Traditional pan-sharpening methods are generally based on handcrafted features, with limited capacity to reconstruct the missing information in the MS images.
  一句话介绍传统Pansharpening工作和限制
  More recently, numerous learning-based frameworks [6]–[8] have been proposed. These methods are able to learn a nonlinear mapping and high semantic features from a large number of paired images, significantly improving the performance and robustness of the pan-sharpening process.
  引出以深度学习为基础的方法并介绍其优势
  
  As the information from the PAN image and MS image is complimentary with a considerable amount of redundancy, building an efficient deep learning model with different specifications becomes a major focus of pan-sharpening tasks.
  介绍了Pansharpening的重要出发点：构建具有不同规格的高效学习模型
  Taking advantage of the MS/PAN image pairs, traditional deep learning-based pan-sharpening frameworks are summarized in Fig. 1. As displayed in Fig. 1(a), existing pan-sharpening methods [7], [9], [10] based on convolutional neural networks (CNNs) tend to view the input MS/PAN image pairs as a whole and aim to learn a mapping function from the concatenation of the LR-MS and PAN to the HR-MS image.
  介绍传统的深度学习网络方法：将LRMS图像和PAN图像拼接之后训练映射函数
  To make full use of the high-frequency information in the PAN image, another learning strategy is depicted in Fig. 1(b), where high-pass version PAN as the residual for information enhancement is employed [2], [11].
  提出了新的学习策略：采用高通版本作为信息增强的残差
  Despite the first-rate results achieved by these CNN-based methods, problems still remain to be solved. Inspired by deep learning-based image super-resolution, Fig. 1(a) presents a solution to cope with the texture generation, which reconstructs the image patch from the information within the small receptive area pixels.However, such a solution is unable to utilize global information in an effective manner from the HR-PAN space, leading to oversmoothing results.
  1a方法：根据小接受区域像素内的信息重建图像块，但是无法获取全局信息
  As for Fig. 1(b), directly learning the residual map from the PAN image tends to give rise to spectral distortion [11].
  1b方法：直接从PAN图像学习残差图会导致光谱失真
  To summarize, there are two major problems that remain to be solved: 1) how to effectively exploit the intrinsic relations between the PAN and MS images? And 2) how to deal with the spectral distortion phenomenon and obtain the high-fidelity, high-frequency information?
  总结当前方法的两个问题：有效利用PAN和MS图像的内在联系；处理频谱失真现象，获得高保真的高频信息。这也是论文的发力点
  
  To answer these questions and address the challenges in pan-sharpening tasks, we propose a novel dual-path fusion network (DPFN) that includes two global subnetworks (GSNs) and two local subnetworks (LSNs), as shown in Fig. 1(c).
  此段开始讲自己的方法：一种双路径融合网络DPFN，包括两个GSN和LSN
  The proposed DPFN aims to learn multiscale feature information progressively, leading to its state-of-the-art performance.
  总体介绍功能：逐步学习多尺度特征信息
  Inspired by the applications of the neighbor embedding model [6], a model that exploits HR patches in the PAN image and reconstructs these patches as a pan-sharpened image, we design a cross nonlocal block (CNL) to excavate long distance and cross space dependencies and aggregate these relevant patches to characterize the global information.The designed CNL can effectively reduce computational cost.
  设计了一个跨越的非局部块（CNL），目的是挖掘长距离和跨空间依赖，并聚合这些相关补丁来表征全局信息。可以降低计算成本
  Meanwhile, unlike existing works [2], [9] that take advantage of high-pass spatial information, we estimate local band-by-band residual components rather than all bands at the same time, aiming to exploit unique bandwise high-pass information.
  另一个创新点：同时估计局部逐带残差分量而不是所有频带
  More specifically, we design a novel high-pass modification block (HMB), where the special residual information is extracted via the spatial attention block, to adaptively learn fine-grained textural information. The learned global and local components are combined as the pan-sharpened image.
  介绍高通修改块，作用是提取特殊的残差信息，自适应地学习细粒度纹理信息
  In addition, we propose a near-infrared-VGG (NIR-VGG) loss to guide the network to focus on perceptual differences and generate visually pleasant results.
  提出近红外损失，产生视觉上更好的结果
  
  The main contributions of the proposed DPFN are given as follows.
  1) We propose an efficient DPFN for the pan-sharpening framework that learns the global and local information via the GSN and LSN, respectively. Both qualitative and quantitative results confirm that the proposed DPFN outperforms existing state-of-the-art methods.
  贡献1：提出了一种用于全色锐化框架的DPFN，通过GSN和LSN学习全局和局部信息
  2) We propose a GSN to capture global textural and spectral information by integrating the neighbor embedding and residual blocks. HR texture information in the PAN space and spectral information in the MS space are fused to characterize the global contour. The proposed GSN is computational-friendly with less spatial and spectral distortion.
  贡献2：提出了GSN，通过集成相邻嵌入和残差块来捕获全局纹理和光谱信息
  3) We design an HMB to enhance the high-frequency spatial information in each band of the MS image. The corrected residual image can fully exploit the spatial prior of the PAN images, avoiding the problem of spectral distortion to a large extent. In addition, we use a perceptual loss to constrain the model in the NIR band. The feature maps in the perceptual domain play an essential role in restoring detailed texture information.
  贡献3：设计了HMB块提取高频信息，并引入了感知损失
  
Related Work：
  Over the past few decades, various pan-sharpening algorithms have been proposed and investigated. Traditional pan-sharpening methods can be grouped into three main categories: component substitution (CS)-, multiresolution analysis (MRA)-, and variational optimization (VO)-based methods [12]. The main idea of CS-based methods is to separate spatial and spectral information of the MS image in a suitable space and further fuse them with the PAN image. The representative CS-based methods include the intensity-hue–saturation (IHS) methods [13], the Brovey transformation (BT)-based methods [14], the principal component analysis (PCA) methods [15], [16], the Gram–Schmidt (GS) methods [17], and so on. In comparison, MRA-based methods decompose MS and PAN images into multiscale space via the Laplacian pyramid transform [18], the Wavelet transform [19], the curvelet transform [20], and the nonsubsampled contourlet transform [21]. Then, the decomposed version PAN images are injected into the corresponding MS images for information fusion [22]. The combination of CS and MRA shows the spatial–spectral unified fidelity [23]. However, the above methods fall short when accurate image coregistration is not satisfied [10].
  VO-based methods regard the pan-sharpening tasks as an ill-posed problem [24] by minimizing a loss function. Li and Yang [25] first proposed a sparse-representation pan-sharpening method that expresses nonlocal relations in the PAN space and reconstructs HR patches in MS space. Cheng et al. [26] further adopted a two-step learning strategy and improved its representation ability. After that, various regularization terms, e.g., nonlocal [27], the Bayesian regularization [28], and total variation operators [29], are equipped into the representation coefficient optimization. However, the performance of these methods is limited due to the shallow nonlinear expression in these models.
  介绍了传统方法
  Recently, several CNN-based pan-sharpening algorithms have been proposed, benefiting from the powerful feature extraction capability of machine learning and the development of deep learning-based single-image super-resolution [30], which facilitates the recovery of the missing high-frequency information from the LR image. Inspired by the super-resolution CNN (SRCNN) [31], PNN [7] learned the nonlinear mapping function between the concatenation of the LR-MS and PAN to the HR-MS image. Scarpa et al. [9] proposed a target-adaptive CNN-based framework that learns the residual image, further improving the performance of the image fusion. Multiscale and multidepth CNN (MSDCNN) [10] was proposed to extract multiscale features. Han et al. [32] proposed a surface- and deep-level constraint-based pan-sharpening network. Cai and Huang [2] proposed a super-resolution guided progressive pan-sharpening neural network to combine multiscale features and achieve improved performance. Nevertheless, most of the aforementioned pan-sharpening methods treat MS/PAN image pairs as independent components and ignore the spatial–spectral correlation between them. Ma et al. [33] proposed an unsupervised strategy via the generative adversarial networks, while Zhang and Ma [34] used the gradient transformation prior to generate the high-quality image with the accurate spectral distribution.
  介绍了之前的深度学习方法
  
  The nonlocal mean operation [6], widely used in image in-painting tasks [35], [36], allows the model to aggregate the global patches at all spatial positions as the response at a position. 
  非局部平均运算是将所有空间位置的全局patch整合起来作为一个位置的响应
  Inspired by the nonlocal mechanism, Zhu and Bamler [37] presented a new model that constructs a pair of HR/LR P AN dictionaries. In [38], a two-step model was proposed, which employs HR texture information in the PAN image for the fine representation of MS features.
  前人对非局部机制的研究
  Despite the success of these methods in improving image quality, these shallow learning networks are computationally demanding and with considerably poor nonlinear expressive capability, leading to their limited performance in practical applications [30], especially in the era of big data.
  提出了不足
  Wang et al. [39] proposed a nonlocal neural network to capture long-distance dependency information. After that, the nonlocal mechanism has been widely used in image in-painting and enhancement tasks, such as super-resolution [40], [41], denoising [42], [43], and dehazing [44], [45]. In our proposed method, the general goal is to efficiently and effectively capture spectral information and spatial texture via the proposed CNL block that achieves the cross-global response (spatial and spectral responses) to improve the quality of our fusion results.
  说明CNL块的功能：捕获光谱信息和空间纹理，实现跨全局响应
  
Proposed Method：
  
  Global Subnetwork：
  Specifically, the input LR-MS ILRMS is fed into an up-block consisting of a feature extraction part (with residual blocks [46]) and an up-sampling part.
  LRMS被送入由上采样和特征提取部分（具有残差块）组成的“上块”中
  Then, we extract the deep features from MS and P AN images as fLRMS and fPAN↓2 via the feature extractor in the up-sampling space.
  从MS和PAN图像中分别提取深度特征
  Finally, the proposed CNL block is used to integrate the MS and P AN features and learn the nonlocal information.
  CNL模块聚合两个特征并学习非局部信息
  
  Local Subnetwork:
  The reconstructed pan-sharpened MS image in the GSN is first divided into c bands (R, G, B, a n d BNIR in this study, where BNIR denotes the NIR channel).
  经过GSN重建后的全色锐化图像被分为c个波段
  Furthermore, the final pan-sharpened MS images in the space with scale factor ×2 can be obtained via the sum operation
  经过求和运算得到经过全色锐化后的图像
  
  Cross Nonlocal Block：
  
  The nonlocal blocks, often used in image in-painting tasks, allow models to aggregate the global pixels at all spatial positions as the response at a position.Specifically, these models are designed to compute the global response and aggregate feature maps in the entire spatial space, expecting to effectively excavate similar and repeated complementary information.
  介绍一下非局部块的作用：允许模型将所有空间位置的全局像素聚合为某个位置的响应
  
  For a pan-sharpening problem, it is crucial to effectively exploit the intrinsic properties of MS with P AN image properties and aggregate the feature maps from the two spaces.In this article, we advocate a CNL to exploit the nonlocal spatial prior from the MS and P AN images, as shown in Fig. 3. Different from the standard nonlocal block, the proposed CNL exploits HR texture information in the P AN space and spectral information in the MS space for the fine representation of pan-sharpened MS features. k × k convolution layers (θ, δ, and φ in Fig. 3) are used to simulate the block operation, which is implemented by a k × k sliding window in the traditional nonlocal algorithms. The complexity of the matrix similarity calculation in the CNL is 2((W H )2/k2).
  介绍了CNL块的功能：提取PAN图像的高分辨率纹理信息和MS图像的光谱信息来生成HRMS。用k*k的卷积层来代替k*k的滑动窗口模拟块运算
  Taking the CNL in the space with scale factor ×2 a s a n example, we first feed the input MS feature map fLRMS and P AN feature map fPAN↓ with the size of W × H × C into the CNL. One of the advantages of the CNL is that the input of the k × k convolution can be rescaled into (W/k) × (H/k) × C. Then, the rescaled features (after the δ convolution layer) are multiplied by the features in the MS space (after the θ convolution layer) and the features in the P AN space (after the φ convolution layer) to calculate feature correlation with a normalization (softmax function). We rescale the similarity matrix into W H × W H via a near interpolation. The embedding operations (ϕ and ϑ in Fig. 3) aim to rescale the original features via a scaling factor. With the proposed CNL, we exploit HR texture information in the P AN space and spectral information in the MS space for the fine representation of pan-sharpened MS features.
  输入PAN和MS的特征之后，用K*K卷积层重新调整特征大小，然后计算相似矩阵，调整相似矩阵大小后，与调整后的原特征进行归一化，拼接之后融合得到特征
  
  High-Pass Modification Block
  
  The proposed HMB (see Fig. 4), termed HMB, is designed to exploit the high-frequency prior. First, the output INN of the CNL is split into single-band images X (in this study, X ∈ {R, G, B, BNIR}). After that, we feed the concatenation of the single-band images X and the P AN image P into the HMB for feature extraction. In particular, HMB cascades nr(nr = 12) residual blocks with 3 × 3 convolutions
  CNL的输出INN被分割成单波段图像X，然后和PAN级联馈送到HMB中用于特征提取
  
